# CSC-331-Spring2026
This repository is meant to be used as a testing sandbox for learning basic Git concepts and commands. 

Depending on your role in the Software Engineering project, you may be tasked with ownership of your group's repository, or you may be tasked with development/changes of files within the repository. As an owner/admin, you will be responsible for overall repository health and acceptance (or denial) of pull requests. Conversely, as a developer you will be responsible for adding/changing files within the repository, and dealing with merge conflicts that you may introduce during a project's lifetime (you will additionally be responsible for creating pull requests and submitting those for approval to the repository owner/admin).

Initially this repository contains the README file that you are presently reading, as well as a "names.txt" file.  Your initial task is to clone this repository so that you can make changes on your own system. You'll then modify the "names.txt" file, appending your name to the end of the list. You will commit your changes into your local repository, then create a pull request so that your changes can be reviewed and accepted into the upstream repository.  If you encounter a merge conflict, you will be expected to handle the conflict as you see fit.  After all students complete this initial task, you will be sent a reminder to update/refresh your local repository to reflect all approved changes.

Repository owners are expected to provide access to all team members and respond to pull requests in a timely fashion (maximum of three days in reviewing and acting on pull requests). A benefit of using Git is visibility into each member's contribution efforts: usage statistics will show clearly who is (and who isn't) participating in the project.  Don't forget that source control does not necessarily imply that only "source code" can be maintained -- rather, you can share/modify additional artifacts of your project using this tool. For example: presentations, documents, diagrams, charts, etc. are all viable candidates to store in your repository. And a major benefit is that you can reflect on changes over time and watch your project unfold/grow. This is a powerful tool and it can help you in many different ways if you take time to understand its potential.

Bonus: Git is very heavily used by nearly every major organization/company in modern times.  This does not necessarily mean the hosted service "GitHub" (presently owned by Microsoft) is predominant -- just that "Git" as a technology is very widespread. Keep in mind that any organization can host their own internal Git server/infrastructure with absolutely no dependencies on "GitHub".  We are leveraging GitHub for these exercises as a convenience, not as a suggestion for adoption.  An example of free software to allow self-hosting Git version control is "Forgejo".
